Introduction/index.md, before:

# Introduction

- [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Who This Book is For](#who-this-book-is-for)
  - [Style Conventions](#style-conventions)
    - [Code](#code)
    - [Emphasis](#emphasis)
    - [Code Styling](#code-styling)

## Who This Book is For

This is an open source textbook written in markdown for a public audience. Some things such as the ability to navigate the book and copy and paste text are assumed.

Wherever possible, terms are explained and examples given. However, as this is an open source book, additional clarification can be requested!

Submit an [Issue](https://github.com/videlais/Unofficial-Ink-Cookbook/issues) to help improve the book for future audiences!

## Style Conventions

This book uses some style conventions to visually explain concepts.

### Code

All Ink code is marked in code blocks. It may appear `in-line`, but most code will appear as the following:

```ink
This is some code.
This is a second line of code.
```

### Emphasis

When introducing terms, it will be given *emphasis*.

In different places, *emphasis may be used to stress its importance or connection to other concepts.*

In rare cases, strong emphasis is used to **stress warnings or potential problems.**.

### Code Styling

Keywords in Ink appear through in-line code blocks. For example, `VAR` would appear like this.

When discussing other scripting or programming languages, emphasis is used for properties and function names. Strong emphasis is used for the name of objects or other complex data structures.

Commit message:

Editing Chapters 1 - 8; Additional example code added throughout
Text was updated to use strong emphasis for knots and stitches, emphasis for choices, and in-line code blocks for diverts. When output (option) text is mentioned, it is enclosed in double quotations.

Introduction/index.md, after:

# Introduction

- [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Who This Book is For](#who-this-book-is-for)
  - [Style Conventions](#style-conventions)
    - [Code](#code)
    - [Emphasis](#emphasis)
      - [Concepts](#concepts)
      - [Representations](#representations)
  - [Other Programming Languages](#other-programming-languages)

## Who This Book is For

This is an open source textbook written in markdown for a public audience. Some things such as the ability to navigate the book and copy and paste text are assumed.

Wherever possible, terms are explained and examples given. However, as this is an open source book, additional clarification can be requested!

Submit an [Issue](https://github.com/videlais/Unofficial-Ink-Cookbook/issues) to help improve the book for future audiences!

## Style Conventions

This book uses some style conventions to visually explain concepts.

### Code

All Ink code is marked in code blocks. It may appear `in-line`, but most code will appear as the following:

```ink
This is some code.
This is a second line of code.
```

### Emphasis

#### Concepts

When introducing terms, it will be given *emphasis*.

In different places, *emphasis may repeated to stress importance or connection to other, previous concepts.*

#### Representations

Strong emphasis is used for **story knots** and **stitches**. As these are the different sections of a story, they are given **strong emphasis**

Diverts are represented as in-line code blocks. For example, the divert `-> Example` would be shown with both its arrow and the name of the knots or stitch it uses.

Keywords in Ink also appear throughout using in-line code blocks. For example, `VAR` would appear like this.

Choices are written using *emphasis*. However, their output is enclosed in quotation marks.

## Other Programming Languages

When discussing other scripting or programming languages such as JavaScript or C#, *emphasis* is used for properties. Strong emphasis is used for the name of objects, methods, or other complex data structures.
